examples/hotrod/README.md, before:

# Hot R.O.D. - Rides on Demand

This is a demo application that consists of several microservices and illustrates the use of the OpenTracing API.

It can be run standalone, but requires Jaeger backend to view the traces.

## Features

* Discover architecture of the whole system via data-driven dependency diagram
* View request timeline & errors, understand how the app works
* Find sources of latency, lack of concurrency
* Highly contextualized logging
* Use baggage propagation to
  * Diagnose inter-request contention (queueing)
  * Attribute time spent in a service
* Use open source libraries with OpenTracing integration to get vendor-neutral instrumentation for free

## Running

### Run Jaeger Backend

An all-in-one Jaeger backend is packaged as a Docker container with in-memory storage.

```
docker run -d -p5775:5775/udp -p16686:16686 jaegertracing/all-in-one:latest
```

Jaeger UI can be accessed at http://localhost:16686.

### Run HotROD Application

```
go get github.com/uber/jaeger
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/uber/jaeger
make install_examples
cd examples/hotrod
go run ./main.go all
```

Then open http://127.0.0.1:8080

Commit message:

Add links to HotROD tutorial (#147)
* Add links to HotROD tutorial
* Add to main README, and add OT badge

examples/hotrod/README.md, after:

# Hot R.O.D. - Rides on Demand

This is a demo application that consists of several microservices and illustrates
the use of the OpenTracing API.
A tutorial / walkthough is available: [Take OpenTracing for a HotROD ride][hotrod-tutorial].

It can be run standalone, but requires Jaeger backend to view the traces.

## Features

* Discover architecture of the whole system via data-driven dependency diagram
* View request timeline & errors, understand how the app works
* Find sources of latency, lack of concurrency
* Highly contextualized logging
* Use baggage propagation to
  * Diagnose inter-request contention (queueing)
  * Attribute time spent in a service
* Use open source libraries with OpenTracing integration to get vendor-neutral instrumentation for free

## Running

### Run Jaeger Backend

An all-in-one Jaeger backend is packaged as a Docker container with in-memory storage.

```
docker run -d -p5775:5775/udp -p16686:16686 jaegertracing/all-in-one:latest
```

Jaeger UI can be accessed at http://localhost:16686.

### Run HotROD Application

```
go get github.com/uber/jaeger
cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/uber/jaeger
make install_examples
cd examples/hotrod
go run ./main.go all
```

Then open http://127.0.0.1:8080


[hotrod-tutorial]: https://medium.com/@YuriShkuro/take-opentracing-for-a-hotrod-ride-f6e3141f7941
